Hello English learners, welcome back to English, my name is Marco and my name is Catherine and today we're talking about being clean
Yeah, we're going to be doing the laundry, right? It's a very important part of everyone's weekly schedule
And not only important, but I find it to be a little bit difficult because you know like washing machine and what clothes you should mix with what and you know how much detergent and how long it's such a complicated process
Well, let's say this, it might not be difficult, but it's very easy to mess up
Exactly, yeah, that's the problem. It's very easy to like just ruin your favorite t-shirt if you don't do laundry correctly
Or all of your white socks turn pink, for example
Right, so we're going to be looking at a lot of vocabulary and phrases related to this topic
And before we get started with the dialogue, why don't we take a look at vocabulary preview
Very vocabulary preview
Okay, so central to all of these phrases and words that we're going to be hearing is a thing and electric thing that helps us wash our clothes
Right, a washing machine
All right, pretty simple, right? So washing is to wash washing and machine so they go together washing machine
Right, so it's easy now. You just put all your clothes in this thing and it washes it for you
No, you know a lot of people don't like to use washing machines. They say it doesn't really clean the clothes as well as doing it by hand
Really, well, I'd say most clothes get get washed pretty well with the washing machine, but if you have those hard to
Hard to get stains or some dirt, maybe it's good to have a washing board
A washing board, yeah, yeah, where you can really scrub it yourself
And we'll funny you mentioned that word stain because it's our second word that we're going to preview a stain
All right, a stain is some color, maybe some food or wine or grass that you can't remove from your clothes
Right, so it's very common you're having a nice dinner and all of a sudden you spill wine on your shirt
So you have a wine stain
I hate that and you can also have stain on your you can also have a stain on your carpet
Right, so if you spill some coffee on your carpet, it's got a little circle that's brown forever
Right, or you know even some people have stained teeth, right?
That's right, so you can get them turned back white with a little money to your dentist
Exactly, so those are the two words that we're going to be looking at today in vocabulary preview
So let's listen to our dialogue, let's see what's happening with these people that are doing laundry
Okay, let's go through this one more time
I don't want any more ruined or dyed blouses
I know, I know, okay, so I have to separate the colors from the whites and put them in this strange looking contraption so called washing machine
Right, you have to turn it on and program it depending on what type of clothes you're washing
For example, for delegates, you should set a shorter washing cycle
Also be sure to use fabric softener and this detergent when washing
So complicated
Okay, what about this red wine stain?
How do I get it out?
Since this is a white t-shirt, you can just pour a little bit of bleach on it and it will do the trick
Cool, then I can just throw everything in the dryer for an hour and it's all set, right?
No, since you're washing delegates and cotton, you should set the dryer to medium heat and for 20 minutes
You know what, I'll just have everything dry cleaned
Okay, so you've got someone who is maybe doing the laundry for the first time
And he's not really understanding the instructions
Well, that's the thing I tell you, it's a little bit difficult
And well, it's very tedious at times to try and do laundry like this
Well, the first thing it's maybe tedious about it is that you have to really worry about what colors go together
Right, so let's take a look at those words that were related to doing laundry now in language takeaway
Language takeaway
Okay, the first word we have is actually related to a joke we made earlier about pink socks
So if you change the color of something, you're dying it
Okay, die, so it's pronounced exactly the same way as, you know, to die to not live anymore
But it's spelled differently
Why?
Okay, so it can be a verb or an adjective
Or an noun
So something that you put on clothes to change the color is called a dye
A dye
But to do this, to change the color of some clothes is to dye the clothes
So that's maybe what happens when you wash a red t-shirt with all your white t-shirts
And you have dyeed shirts, pink shirts and now
And also women when they go to the beauty salon, they dye their hair
Exactly, so that means you change the color of your hair
It means it's a long-term change, it's not short, it's not like one day
Right, it means probably for a long time
So that's the correct word to dye
Very different, maybe some people say to paint
Which you know, we understand, but the correct form would be to dye
And next we have a word that describes a certain kind of clothing
We're not talking about pants or socks, we're talking about delicate
So now this adjective delicate, which means it's very easy to break
Fradule, right?
But this is a noun, delicate
Right, so you think of something that's easy to break or to ruin
Maybe you think of underwear
Underwear
Underwear is something you wear under your clothing
And so it's generally not as strong as a shirt or a pair of jeans
And so we call these in English, delicate
Very good
So you have to be careful when you're washing your delicate
Because it's happened to me before you put them in with all the clothes
And then you have stretched out boxes or something like that
Yeah, so that's why many women I know wash delicate by hand
So you separate the clothes from the delicate
Very good
And now if you're washing delicate or washing towels or t-shirts
It's always a good idea to use fabric softener
Alright fabric softener, what are these two words?
One of them you understand already, maybe it's soft softener
So it makes it soft
Yeah, something that makes something softer
We've got fabric softener, so that's something that makes the clothes that you wash softener
So fabric is any type of material, like a textile
Yeah, so it could be cotton or silk
Or nylon
Linnon, so these are all kinds of fabrics
So you pour a little bit of this in your washing machine
And your clothes come out really nice and soft
Mmm, it feels nice just talking about it
Alright, and we'll also to wash your clothes
So actually make them clean, you use detergent
Right, so many people might want to say the word soap
Because soap is what we use to wash our hands
And our dishes, but here we have detergent
So this is a special soap for your clothes
Right, laundry detergent
Yeah, you could just say laundry detergent or simply detergent
And now in order to remove those nasty stains
That maybe are very hard, you would use a chemical called bleach
Alright, so bleach is the dangerous chemical
Because it smells very strong
Right, and it can change the color of your clothes to white or yellow
So we usually only use bleach with white clothes
I actually had a friend who changed the color of his hair to white
Using bleach, he put bleach on his head and on his hair and it just turned white
Oh wow, so many people do that because they want to go from dark colors to light colors
And in that case you wouldn't say you could say that he dyed his hair white
But usually you would say he bleached his hair
It's so we understand that it turned white
Exactly
So those five words we just looked at in language takeaway
They're important they're related to doing laundry
So before we move on, let's listen to our dialogue again
But a little bit slower
Okay, let's go through this one more time
I don't want any more ruined or dyed blouses
I know, I know
Okay, so I have to separate the colors from the whites
And put them in a strange looking contraption so called washing machine
Right, you have to turn it on and program it
Depending on what type of clothes you are washing
For example, for delegates, you should set a shorter washing cycle
Also, be sure to use fabric softener and this detergent when washing
So complicated
Okay, what about this red wine stain?
How do I get it out?
Since this is a white t-shirt, you can just pour a little bit of bleach on it
And it will do the trick
Cool
Then I can just throw everything in the dryer for an hour
And it's all set, right?
No
Since you're washing delegates and cotton, you should set the dryer to medium heat
And for 20 minutes
You know what?
I'll just have everything dry clean
So here at English Pop, we'd like to also provide you listeners
With some phrases that allow you to increase your fluencies
That means sound more like a native English speaker
And so today let's check out these phrases in Fluency Builder
Fluency Builder
Alright, so on Fluency Builder we're going to be looking at four words or four phrases
So the first one was really easy when she was telling the guy
Or instructing him how to do the laundry
She said, let's go through this one more time
Go through what?
The wall?
No, so it's not actually to go through an object like to pass
So let's repeat or let's rehearse again
Okay, so normally we say this when there are many different steps to do something
So let's go through this again
When you leave work you go home
You unlock the door
You open the door
And so it means that there's a process
There are many steps
So let's go through this again
As a way for us to say let's think about and discuss this process
Very good, so we also use it maybe when we're studying
So let's go through this subject one more time
Can we go through chapter five again?
Exactly, so you would reread a chapter five
Alright, so why don't we listen to a couple of more examples of how we could use go through
Example one
I want to go through chapter five again before the exam tomorrow
Example two
David, do you have time this afternoon to go over the details of this new project?
Example three
I went through my contract and it says that I am entitled to 15 vacation days a year
Now this next phrase is very common when we're using sarcasm
And when we're trying to make jokes, so we say so called
Right, so she said this so called contraption
It's like she doubts that it's really a washing machine
So I could say her so called boyfriend wants to go out tonight
So I say that because he doesn't really act like a boyfriend
So you're being sarcastic
It's a very good way in easy way of demonstrating sarcasm
Yeah, actually in 1990s in America there was a very famous TV show called my so called light
Mm-hmm, right?
So this is my so called life
It's almost like it's not really like I have any control over it
No, I don't really have a life because it's kind of boring
Yeah, so my so called life not bragging it's a joke
So you can say it my so called friends my so called job
Basically, you can almost be sarcastic with anything
Yeah, but be careful that you know that it's a joke because if you're trying to be serious
You might make some people angry
Right, and now well, she was explaining the whole process of how to do it
And when she recommended using bleach she said that should do the trick trick
So dogs do tricks, right?
Right, but to do the trick, right?
What is that different meaning?
All right, so she's saying this should work. This should fix your problem
Mm-hmm, so that should do the trick
So Marco, I've been having this itch on my foot and I just can't I can't seem just to figure out what to do with it
Do you have any suggestions?
Yeah, you should maybe just put some ointment on it and I should do the trick
All right, cool. Thanks for this suggestion
Yeah, so very easy is just a way of saying that should solve your problem
All right, great. So that should do the trick or it will do the trick
Mm-hmm, and what we have one last phrase all set all set
So this is another phrase that that has two words that always go together to mean
Well, we're finished. We're done everything is ready everything is ready
We're all set to go on vacation
So my bags are packed. I have my passport. We are all set
Or after meeting you can say are we all set here? That means are we finished?
Is it time to leave?
Very good. So we are almost all set. Let's listen to this dialogue one last time
Okay, let's go through this one more time
I don't want any more ruined or died blouses. I know I know okay
So I have to separate the colors from the whites and put them in this strange looking contraption
So called washing machine
Right, you have to turn it on and program it depending on what type of clothes you're washing
For example for delegates you should set a shorter washing cycle
Also be sure to use fabric softener and this detergent when washing so complicated
Okay, what about this red wine stain? How do I get it out?
Since this is a white t-shirt you can just pour a little bit of bleach on it
And it will do the trick cool
Then I can just throw everything in the dryer for an hour and it's all set, right?
No, since you're washing delegates and cotton you should set the dryer to medium heat and for 20 minutes
You know what? I'll just have everything dry cleaned
Have you ever had any laundry mishaps? Have you ever lost a sock died something?
Have I ever? I hate doing the laundry
Why?
So it's time consuming it takes a lot of time and I just I have no patience
And so normally when I was in college I would take all of my laundry in a bag
And I'd throw in the washing machine and I'd put it on cold
You know because cold water it's okay for all colors
But hot water makes the colors bleed
I took out the clothes and put them in the dryer and afterwards
I saw all my clothes were clean except for my three sweaters, which were small enough for babies
Oh, you broke it. Yeah, I shrunk three of brand new sweaters
Oh, nice to have that the problem that I have when doing laundry is that I forget that I started doing laundry
So all of a sudden, you know, I'm doing laundry in the morning and then
Closer or washed but they're still in the washing machine
And I remember like the next day
So then the clothes are like kind of smelling like kind of humid
Because they're moldy
Yeah, so I have to re wash them and just like a pain
Yeah, but doing laundry is sometimes so time consuming
But let us know what you think do you like doing laundry or have you ever lost a sock
I think everyone has lost a sock or something in the washing right?
I think there's a secret home for socks somewhere
Maybe it's an Australia
So come to our website EnglishPod.com
Give us all your feedback, question, comments or suggestions and we're always there
All right, I hope to hear from you soon and until next time everyone
Bye